#Variables

[C Compiler - Click here] (https://ideone.com/)

Variables are essential to any computer program. Variables hold different values that can easily be changed later in the program. In a variable, you _store_ values like how a cardboard box can store shoes. One can label their shoe boxes for different types of shoes similarily to how someone can name variables for various purposes.

In a variable there is the __name__ which is on the left side (which you choose what the variable name is), an ```=``` sign after the name that assigns a __value__ (which is put after the ```=``` sign) to the variable name. The __data type__ of the variable comes before its name.

```c
int this_is_a_variable = 10;
```

The line above shows how to __initialize__ a variable. We can also use the same variable but assign a new value to it by writing the variable without the data type in order to indicate that we are using it and now creating a new variable.

```c
this_is_a_variable = 5;
```

In this case above, we assign the value 5 to the variable we previously created. There are times where instead of using more space to create a new variable that has the same purpose, we replace the value of the variable witth a new one.

__A good habit to follow is to know what your variable is used for and when making new variables, check for its necessity.__

##Styles
A good variable name is short, to the point, and is descriptive enough to describe its purpose. There are a few styles of naming variables. It is __recommended to stick with one style__ while you code in order to keep the program neat.
Different programmers prefer different styles such as:

__The Underscore__
```c
float move_block_distance = 20.0f;
int character_health = 100;
```
With the Underscore style, all words in the variable are lower-case, separated by an underscore.

__The Camel Casing__
```c
float moveBlockDistance = 20.0f;
int characterHealth = 200;
```
With the Camel Casing style there are no underscores, however the first word is lower-case and the ones afterwards are capitalized.

The examples above are clearly defined; one can see how the variable ```move_block_distance``` is 20 which means the block movement is 20. The units (ft, meters) are not defined, but since we are working with variables, the value of ```move_block_distance``` can be changed within a program.
<br><br>

####Here are some examples of bad variables and bad styles:

__The Screamer__
```c
int ENEMYHEALTH = 36;
int BULLETDAMAGE = 4;
int FRIENDLYFIREDAMAGE = 2;
```
While all caps variables are used in programs in certain cases, don't do this for every variable.

__Mr. LongJohns__
```c
int enemy_monster_tree_scare_green_health_after_two_days_at_night = 2;
int varTakenFromTurningBecauseItsWithThisScriptFromTheBeginning = 10;
```
You shouldn't take longer to read the variable than to understand what it does.

__The Face Smasher / The Lazy Potato__
```c
long b = 1000000L;
int qdyu = 15;
float csharp = 10.3f;
int cplusplus = 2;
int wper = 12;
int uper = 534;
int mper = 20;
```
The main problem for this style is that nobody, not even yourself, will be able to understand the variables and what they mean. When someone adds ```uper``` to ```qdyu``` and the computer outputs the number of ```549```, it will be more difficult to understand what the outcome means. Although a program can have hundreds of variables and can be tedious at times, it is always a good habit to create informative and readable variables.

#####IMPORTANT TO NOTE: 
* Certain symbols such as *, / or numbers cannot be used in variables since they mean something else.
* Variables are case-sensitive so ```snake``` is a different variable from ```Snake```
* The ```=``` sign when putting a value to a variable __does not__ mean that the variable is _equivalent_ to the value. The values on the right side is __assigned__ to the variable on the left. (If still hard to comprehend, the practice underneath will demonstrate how variables are assigned)
* Variable assignments are usually done at the top of the document or function. Otherwise, they are put as close as possible to where they are used.

##Mini-Lesson : Operators
In order to use variables effectively, the programmer must learn a set of operators. Operators will be covered in more depth in a later lesson, however these are a few that should be used early on:
* ```+``` is used to __add__
* ```-``` is used to __subtract__
* ```*``` is used to __multiply__
* ```/``` is used to __divide__
* ```%``` is used to divide then find the __remainder__
* ```^``` is used for __exponents__

Example:
```c
int exponent_value = 7 ^ 3;
```
The ```exponent_value``` variable would be printed as the number ```343```.
<br><br><br>
__[Next Lesson - Click Here](https://github.com/burnabysouthprogramming/Lessons/blob/master/Lesson-1/1b.%20Data%20Types.md)__
