#Review

[C Compiler - Click here] (https://ideone.com/)

Last day we looked at __variables__ and __data types__. We used compilers which are programs that executes your code and make man-made code readable for the computer.

##Variables
Variables are a word representation of a location that __stores__ a value.
```c
int this_is_a_variable = 2;
```
__In order to initialize or create a variable, we use a data type, a name, and a value.__
```c
int carrots = 5;
```
DataType Name = Value;
<br><br>
__In order to use the variable to assign a new value to the variable, we only use the name and input a value.__
```c
int carrots = 5;
carrots = 5 - 2;
```
In this example, we assigned a new value to the variable on the second line. Instead of using up more space, we are able to change the value of a variable we previously assigned.
<br><br>
It is important to make sure you use the variables you created so you can save space in your program.

##Data Types
Data types are used to specify how much memory should be allocated for the variable.
<br><br>
__Int__, otherwise known as integers, are used to assign integer numbers, positive or negative. They cannot be used with decimals. The range of ```int``` is around -30 000 to 30 000. You cannot assign any values beyond that range with this data type.
<br><br>
__Long__ is just a bigger integer. You must put an ```L``` at the end of the value you assign. It has a range of values of -2 000 000 000 to 2 000 000 000. You cannot assign any values beyond that range with this data type.
<br><br>
__Float__ variables can be any number with decimals. You must put an ```f``` at the end of the value. It has a range of -3.4e38 to 3.4e38. You cannot assign any values beyond that range with this data type.
<br><br>
__Double__ variables are larger ```float```s. You can use decimals, but you must also place a ```d``` at the end of the value you assign. The range of a ```double``` is from -1.7e308 to 1.7e308.  You cannot assign any values beyond that range with this data type.
<br><br>
__Char__ is a one letter variable. You assign a character to it, with its range being basically the alphabet. You cannot assign any values beyond that range with this data type.
<br><br>
__Bool__ is a true or false variable. The range is 0 or 1 with 1 being true and 0 being false. You also require a special header to use bools, but that will be discussed later.
<br><br><br>
__Why are data types important? Why do we need variables? Why do we need data types?__
<br>
We need variables in order to store values somewhere on our program. Variables are changeable and also allow us to customize our program. We will need them in order to tell the computer what to do.<br><br>
Data types are important because we need them in order to tell the computer how much space it should leave for the variable. We do not want the computer to leave too much space for a tiny value nor do we want the computer to leave no space for a large value. We, as the programmer, need to specify how much space we will need for that variable, considering what uses the variable will have in the program we will make in the future.
<br>

#Code Structure
Code structure in a program is important so that the code can stay neat and readable.<br><br>
__1. It is also a good habit to space out values and symbols in your code.__ <br>
It looks neater to write ```int variable = 4;``` with a space on both ends of the ```=``` sign. It looks more cramped to write ```int variable=4;```. It makes the code a whole lot reader-friendly.
<br><br>
__2. Make sure you keep track of your spaces in the program for each line.__<br>
Nobody talks about the spacing much since it usually is a given, but for beginners, you should know that from each ```{}``` bracket, the program moves inward for a certain amount of spaces. We can use the Tab button to space out our program, but many companies have a specific number of spaces for organization (like how one Tab is 4 spaces).<br>
```c
int main (void) 
{
  int variable = 2;
  
  if (variable == 0) 
  {
    int newVariable = 2;
    
    if (variable == 2)
    {
      return 0;
    }
    
    return 1;
  }
  return 1;
}
```
This program, whether or not it makes sense to you, shows the spacing that goes on within programming. For each set of curly brackets, the code inside moves a Tab more to the right.
<br><br>
__3. For spacing between lines, you choose when to space. Usually you can group things that are similar__<br>
Spacing in lines is not read by the computer since it just skips over the line if there is nothing in it. The programmer can choose what to add an extra line to and how to organize their program.
```c
int variable = 2;

int linesInProgram = 3;
```
<br><br>
__4. The ```{``` dilemma.__
```c
int main (void) {
  //some people put the bracket above^^...
  return 0;
}
```
While others..
```c
int main (void)
{
  //Put the bracket on the next line
  return 0;
}
```
Ultimately, it's your choice and you can choose the style that looks best for you.
<br><br>
__[Next Lesson - Click Here](https://github.com/burnabysouthprogramming/Lessons/blob/master/Lesson-2/2b.%20Comments.md)__
